README.md, before:

# learning-rust 🦀
repo which is used to learn rust

## General

* it is common to structure a program around the data they handle
* rust do NOT have exceptions
* all error states are often encoded in the return type
* rust brings in a set of items defined in the standard library, that is in scope of every program, this is called `prelude`
* if a type is not part of the `prelude`, we need to bring it in scope explicit with a `use`statement
* `{}` contains the content of a function
* variables are immutable by **default**
* references to variables are also immutable by **default**
* once given a value, a value of a variable won't change
* to make a variable mutable, the `mut` keyword needs to be used
* `//` marks comments until end of line
* `{}` inside `println!()` are placeholders for variables
* constants are not allowed to change, they are always immutable
* constants using the keyword `const`
* the type of a constant have to be annotated
* constants can be declared at any scope
* constants are only allowed to be an constatn expression, **not** a result of a runtime computation
* constants have a naming convention, `NAME_OF_THE_CONSTANT`, all uppercase with underscores betwenn words
* **shadowing** is the re-declaration of a **immutable** variable 
* **shadowing** is scope related
* **shadowing** is **not** mutability, reassignment only work with `let` keyword
* after reassignment the variable is immutable again
* **shadowing** can be used to change the type of a variable, to reuse the name
* **rust** will never automatically do a **deep** copy

## Ownership

* most unique feature of **rust*
* it enables memory safety guarantees without a garbage collector
* **ownership** is a set of rules to govern how the memory gets managed
* if any rule is violated, the programm won't compile
* allocated memory will be returned to the **memory allocator**,
  when the variable that owns it is out of scope
* when a variable goes out of scope, rust calls `drop` to return
  the allocated memory the the memory allocator

### Ownership rules

* each value in **rust** is an *owner*
* there can only be one owner at a time
* when the owner goes out of scope, the value will be **dropped**

### Ownership of different types

* **integers** are simple values of known, fixed size. Therefor will put into **stack**
* **Strings** - when this type get assigned from one variable to another, the **pointer**, **lenght** and **capacity** 
  gets copied to the new variable. The content on the **heap** stays untouched.
  Also the the first variable will be **droped**. This operation is called **move**.
  Do get a actual **deep** copy of a `String` type, the `clone()` method can be used. This copies not only the **stack**
  data, but also the **heap** data. Therefor each variable has ownership of its own pointer content
    
## Data types

* **scalar** and **compound** are a subset of data types
* **scalar** types are single value types
* **scalar** types are `integer`, `floating-point numbers`, `Booleans` and `characters`
* rust hase two **compound** types, `Tuple` and `Array`
* **compouund** types can hold multiple values

### String Types

* type `String` is most common and hold the ownership of the content
  * can be create from a literal string - `String`
  * `String::new` is used to create a new instance of `String`, which is empty
  * `::from` or `::new` namespaces the `from` and `new` functions under the String type
* type `str` is the primitive counterpart of `String`
  * also calles **string slice**
  * usually seen in its borrowed form `&str`
  * always valid **UTF-8**
* `String` literals as `let mut s = "some string";` will **not** compile, this is because of:
  * `String literals` are hard coded and the content is known at compile time
  * therefore it lives in the stack
* `String Type` created with `let mut s = String::from("some string");` will compile
  * in order to have mutability, memory will be allocated on the heap
  * this memory needs to be allocated by the **memory allocator** at runtime
  * **pointer reference**, **lenght** and **capacity** of a `String` is stored in the stack
  * content of the **pointer reference** is stored in the heap
  * **lenght** is current memory usage in bytes of the content of the `String`
  * **capacity** - tbd

### Integer Types

* 8-bit, 16-bit, 32-bit, 64-bit or 128-bit
* **signed** or **unsigned**
* when it is sure that the number always will be positiv, **unsigned** integers can be used
* **isize** or **usize** indicated dependens on the architecture of the computer the programm is running on
* integers can be written in **decimal**, **hex**, **octal**, **binary** or **bit** (u8 only)
* as a visual separator and ease up reading an `_` can be used, e.g. `1_000`

### Floating-Point Types

* 32-bit or 64-bit
* default is **f64**
* all floating-point numbers are **signed**
* **f32** is single-percision float
* **f64** is double-percision float

### Numeric operations

* addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and remainder

### Boolean Types

* possible states **true** or **false**
* mainly used in conditionals, e.g. **if** statements

### Tuple Types

* is used to group a number of values, with a variety of types
* have fixed length, ones decalred this can not be changed
* declared comma-separated inside of parentheses
* each position has a type, types do not have to be the same
* tuples can be destructered
* elements can also be accessed using a period **.** sign
* starting index is **0**
* **unit** is a special case of tuple, where value and corresponding type are written in `()`

### Array Types

* colletion of multiple values
* all values have the same type
* have a fixed length and number of elements will not change
* useful to allocate data on the `stack`, instead to the `heap` or to have always a fixed number of elements
* initialized with `[i32; 5]` means five elements of type *i32*
* initialized with `[5; 3]` means three times the same element with the same value
* elements can be accessed via `array[0]` - to get the first element
* if an element out of bound is tried to be accessed, **rust** panics
* can only be indexed with **unsigend** numbers

### Character Types

* most primitive **alphabatic** type
* `char` literals are specified with single quotes, e.g. `let c: char = 'c';`
* **4 bytes** in size
* represents a **scalar** unicode value
* accented letters, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean characters, emoji,
  and zero-width spaces are all valid char values in Rust
* range is from `U+0000` to `U+D7FF` and `U+E000` to `U+10FFFF`

## Functions

* most important is the `main` function, because it is the entry point of the program
* `snake_case` is convention for naming functions
* `fn`keyword is used to define a function
* position of the function definition in one file does not matte, because it is the entry point of the program
* `snake_case` is convention for naming functions
* `fn`keyword is used to define a function
* position of the function definition in one file does not matter
* function signatures **must** declare the type of each argument
* build out of statements, which can have an optional ending in an expression
* can return an value
* no name for return value needed
* return value of a function is the same as the final expression of a function
* returning earlies in a function needs the **return** keyword

### Statement & Expressions

* **statements** are instructions, which do not return a value
* **expressions** are evaluated to resulting in a value
* calling a function, calling a macro and a scope block is an **expression**
* **statements** have a trailing semicolon
* **expressions** do not have trailing semicolon, adding one will it make an statement

## Control Flow

* rust has **if expressions** and **loops**
* **if expressions** needs to evaluate to a **bool**
* no automaatic conversion of types to **bool**
* an **if expression** can be on the right site of a **let**, to the outcome to the variable
* when using this approach, both arms of the **if expression** needs to be the same type

### Loops & While

* `loop` keyword runs block of code over and over again
* runs until it will get break
* `Ctrl-c` or `break` keyword, can break the **loop**
* `continue` keyword can be used to skip over remaining code and start next iteration
* **loops** can be used to retry an operation, e.g. checking if a thread if it has completed its job
* values behind the `break` condition will be returned
* **loops** can be nested
* `break` and `continue` will effect the innermost **loop**
* **loop labels** can be used to specify which **loop** should be affected by `break` and `continue`
* `while` is  used when a program should evaluate befor each loop if the
  conditions are still **true**, otherwise break the loop
* `while` loop eleminating a lot of `if`, `else` & `break` nesting, to break a `loop`
* `for` loop can be used to loop through a collection

## Standard libraries

* to obtain user input and write output we need the `io` standard lib
* to use `io` it needs to be imported via `std:io`

## Crates

* an executable is a `binary crate`
* an external one, is called `library crate`
  * code is intended to used in other programs
  * can't be executed on its own
* external `library crates` are used to extend the functionality of the program
* external `library crates` are managed in the `Cargo.toml` file of the project
* **crates.io** is the site where **crates** gets published
* `Cargo.lock` file is used to pin down every used version of a crate for the project
* `Cargo.lock` ensures that every build is the same
* `cargo update` can update dependecies

### Heap & Stack

* most programming languages do not require to think of `heap`and `stack`
* both are part of the memory that is available to the code
* when a function is called, the values which are passed to the function (including also pointer to data on the `heap`)
  and local variables get pushed into the `stack` and will be popped out 
  when the functiuon is over

#### Stack

* stores data in the order it gets them
* removes the data in the opposite order
* `LIFO` - last in first out principle
* add data to the stack is called **pushing onto the stack**
* removing data from the stack is called **popping off the stack**
* all data stored in the stack must have a known size
* data with unknown size at compile time needs to be stored in the `heap`
* pishing to the `stack`is fast, because the allocator does not to search for a spot

#### Heap

* is less organized than the `stack`
* when data is put into the `heap`, a certain amount of memory is requested
* the memory allocator finds an empty spot, marks it as `in use` and returns a pointer to the data
* the process is called **allocating on the heap**
* because the pointer to the `heap` is a knwon size, it will be stored on the `stack`
* to get the actual data, the pointer needs to be followed into the `heap`
* accessing data in the `heap` is slower than in data in the `stack`, because the pointer needs to be followed

## Compiling & Executing

* `rustc` compiles the `main.rs` to an executable binary 
* `rustc` is suited for simple programs
* `cargo` is the build system and package manager of rust
  * builds code
  * downloads libraries
  * building those libraries
* to manage options and dependecies `cargo` is better suited than `rustc`
* dependencies are handled in a `Cargo.toml` file
  * `[package]` handles name, version and edtion
  * edtion indicated the rust language version
  * `[dependencies]` list the project dependencies
* packages in rust are called `crates`

## Syntax 

* variables are defined with `let`
* variables are unmutable by default
* to get a mutable variable it needs to be declared as so: `let mut <name-of-variable>`
* `fn main() {}` is always the first function that runs in every executable rust programm
* a semicolon `;` end an expression in rust
* `!#[allow(unused)]` allows unused variables in code, should only be used in for development
* indentation is always 4 `spaces` not `tabs`
* `println!` calls a rust macro, this is marked by the `!` at the end, if the `!` would be missing, it would be a functuin call
* `("{}")` is used to print a variable
* not all variables can just be printed, therefore we can use the **debug representation**, `{:?}`
* `PathBuf` does not implement `std::fmt::Display`, therefor to use `println!` on it, we need to call `display()` on the value
* `String.trim_end()` removes trailign whitespaces

### IO

* `io::stdin()` is a function to receive user input
* `io::stdin()` returns an instance of `std::io::Stdin`, which is a type that represents a handle to the standard input
* `read_line()` is a method of an instance of `std::io::Stdin` handle
* `read_line()` receives a reference to a mutable variable to store the `string` in
* `read_line()` returns a **Result** with 2 possible variants
  * **Ok** - operation was successful
  * **Err** - operation was failed
  * with `expect()` the error case can be handled, what usually indicates a problem in the underlying OS

### Reading from files

* a `File::open()` not a string, it returns a `Result`
* a `Result` in this case, contains a `String` and an `Error`
* a `Result` is an `enum`
* to handle the enum variants, also called **arms**, we can use `match`
* `unwrap()` is the shortcut method to do the same
* `unwrap()` combines the `match` and `panic` combination
* `?` is also a for `match`
* `?` can only be used on functions that returns a `Result`
* `?` will end up in the already unwrapped result (Ok), or `Err`

### Smart-Pointer

* `Pointer` is a address to a memory location
* `Box<T>` is the most straigforward smart pointer
* a `Box<T>` smart pointer stores data on the `heap`instead of the `stack`
* `Boxes` do not have a performance overhead, but also do not have extra caüabilities
* common uses cases are:
  * a type with an unknown size at compile time and a value of that type should be used
  in a context which requires an exact size
  * when a value should be owned, where it is only needed to know that
  a certain trait is implemented, rahter than a specific type

### Enumerations

* is used to define a type by enumerating over its possible varinats
* is used to encode meaning with data
* it is possible to attach data to an `enum` directly, without using a `struct`
* each variant of an `enum` becomes a function to construct an instance of the `enum`
* when assigning data directly eo an `enum`, it is also possible that the variants can have
  different types and associated data
* with `impl` it is possible to define `methods` on enums
* `enums` with different typed variants are better suited to pass into a function, than 
  the same amont of differents `structs`

### Output - Debugging & Logging

* by adding `#[derive(Debug)]` enables output for custom types
* `Debug` trait is usually output that targets **developers**
* `Display` trait is usually output that targets the **user**
* logging of output of the programm should be done with `stdout` - `println!()`
* logging of errors should be done with `stderr` - `eprintln!()`
* printing to the console is slow, but there are ways to speed things up:
  1. reduce number of writes that **flush** the terminal. `println!` tells the system to **flush** the terminal everytime.
  if this is not neccessary the `stdout` can be wrapped in a `BufWriter`
  2. acquire a lock on `stdout`or `stderr` and use `writeln!` to print directly
  this prevents the system from locking and unlocking the `stdout` all the time

## Testing

* unit test will be in the file, where the units are which should be tested
* convention is to create a module named `tests` in each file and to annotate it with `cfg(test)`
* integration test will live externaly to the `src` files in a folder called `tests`
* integration test will use the code in the same way as other code would do
* assertions are done with `assert_eq!` macro
* write integration tests for every behavior a user can encounter
* integrations test should not cover all edge cases, lean on unit tests for that
* do **not** test what you can not controll

## Packages

* `PathBuf` from `std::path` is also a string, but for file system paths an works cross-platform
* `std::fs::read_to_string` will read fill to a value
* calling `.lines()` on the return value of `std::fs::read_to_string` will give me an iterable value, where each index is a line
* the result of `.lines()` is a `String`, which has a `.contains()` method, to check if a string contains a certain pattern
* `anyhow` is a package to handle errors and to have pretty printing to console
* `ansi_term` is a good package to print out raw escaped code
* `assert_cmd` adds methods on *command*
* `assert_fs` is usefule to generate temporary test files
* `predicates` assertion library
* `std:process:Command` is used to run the binary
* `rand` is used to generate random numbers
* `tabled` an easy to use library for pretty print tables of Rust `struct`s and `enum`s.

## Packaging and Distributing

* three ways to package and release a programm
* publishing with **cargo**
  * with **cargo** all external dependecies will get downloaded from **cartes.io**
  * `cargo publish` will publish the crate to **crates.io**
  * `cargo.toml` should include all necessary fields for publishing on **crates.io**
  * e.g.: name, version, authors, license, description, readme, homepage, repo, keywords, categories
  * to install a package from **crates.io** `cargo install <crate-name>` should be used
  * user of the tool need to have rust installed to compile from source and use the programm
  * should mainly be used for crates which targets other rust developers
* distributing binaries
  * `cargo build` will generate binaries
  * generates one file, that can be used by users with the same OS
  * no need for `rust` to be installed
  * no need for compilation
  * different OS needs different builds and binaries
* getting the app into a package registry
  * usually no think about how to install the tool
  * package managers provides update mechanics
  * but each OS has there own package managers
* for starters, first use `cargo install`, than binaries and at last package managers

Commit message:

update on ownership of String type

README.md, after:

# learning-rust 🦀
repo which is used to learn rust

## General

* it is common to structure a program around the data they handle
* rust do NOT have exceptions
* all error states are often encoded in the return type
* rust brings in a set of items defined in the standard library, that is in scope of every program, this is called `prelude`
* if a type is not part of the `prelude`, we need to bring it in scope explicit with a `use`statement
* `{}` contains the content of a function
* variables are immutable by **default**
* references to variables are also immutable by **default**
* once given a value, a value of a variable won't change
* to make a variable mutable, the `mut` keyword needs to be used
* `//` marks comments until end of line
* `{}` inside `println!()` are placeholders for variables
* constants are not allowed to change, they are always immutable
* constants using the keyword `const`
* the type of a constant have to be annotated
* constants can be declared at any scope
* constants are only allowed to be an constatn expression, **not** a result of a runtime computation
* constants have a naming convention, `NAME_OF_THE_CONSTANT`, all uppercase with underscores betwenn words
* **shadowing** is the re-declaration of a **immutable** variable 
* **shadowing** is scope related
* **shadowing** is **not** mutability, reassignment only work with `let` keyword
* after reassignment the variable is immutable again
* **shadowing** can be used to change the type of a variable, to reuse the name
* **rust** will never automatically do a **deep** copy

## Ownership

* most unique feature of **rust*
* it enables memory safety guarantees without a garbage collector
* **ownership** is a set of rules to govern how the memory gets managed
* if any rule is violated, the programm won't compile
* allocated memory will be returned to the **memory allocator**,
  when the variable that owns it is out of scope
* when a variable goes out of scope, rust calls `drop` to return
  the allocated memory the the memory allocator

### Ownership rules

* each value in **rust** is an *owner*
* there can only be one owner at a time
* when the owner goes out of scope, the value will be **dropped**

### Ownership of different types

* **integers** are simple values of known, fixed size. Therefor will put into **stack**
  This seems to be the opposite of the `String` behavior, but because all data live in the **stack**, 
  a deep copy or shallow copy is the same.
* **Strings** - when this type get assigned from one variable to another, the **pointer**, **lenght** and **capacity** 
  gets copied to the new variable. The content on the **heap** stays untouched.
  Also the the first variable will be **droped**. This operation is called **move**.
  Do get a actual **deep** copy of a `String` type, the `clone()` method can be used. This copies not only the **stack**
  data, but also the **heap** data. Therefor each variable has ownership of its own pointer content
    
## Data types

* **scalar** and **compound** are a subset of data types
* **scalar** types are single value types
* **scalar** types are `integer`, `floating-point numbers`, `Booleans` and `characters`
* rust hase two **compound** types, `Tuple` and `Array`
* **compouund** types can hold multiple values

### String Types

* type `String` is most common and hold the ownership of the content
  * can be create from a literal string - `String`
  * `String::new` is used to create a new instance of `String`, which is empty
  * `::from` or `::new` namespaces the `from` and `new` functions under the String type
* type `str` is the primitive counterpart of `String`
  * also calles **string slice**
  * usually seen in its borrowed form `&str`
  * always valid **UTF-8**
* `String` literals as `let mut s = "some string";` will **not** compile, this is because of:
  * `String literals` are hard coded and the content is known at compile time
  * therefore it lives in the stack
* `String Type` created with `let mut s = String::from("some string");` will compile
  * in order to have mutability, memory will be allocated on the heap
  * this memory needs to be allocated by the **memory allocator** at runtime
  * **pointer reference**, **lenght** and **capacity** of a `String` is stored in the stack
  * content of the **pointer reference** is stored in the heap
  * **lenght** is current memory usage in bytes of the content of the `String`
  * **capacity** - tbd

### Integer Types

* 8-bit, 16-bit, 32-bit, 64-bit or 128-bit
* **signed** or **unsigned**
* when it is sure that the number always will be positiv, **unsigned** integers can be used
* **isize** or **usize** indicated dependens on the architecture of the computer the programm is running on
* integers can be written in **decimal**, **hex**, **octal**, **binary** or **bit** (u8 only)
* as a visual separator and ease up reading an `_` can be used, e.g. `1_000`

### Floating-Point Types

* 32-bit or 64-bit
* default is **f64**
* all floating-point numbers are **signed**
* **f32** is single-percision float
* **f64** is double-percision float

### Numeric operations

* addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and remainder

### Boolean Types

* possible states **true** or **false**
* mainly used in conditionals, e.g. **if** statements

### Tuple Types

* is used to group a number of values, with a variety of types
* have fixed length, ones decalred this can not be changed
* declared comma-separated inside of parentheses
* each position has a type, types do not have to be the same
* tuples can be destructered
* elements can also be accessed using a period **.** sign
* starting index is **0**
* **unit** is a special case of tuple, where value and corresponding type are written in `()`

### Array Types

* colletion of multiple values
* all values have the same type
* have a fixed length and number of elements will not change
* useful to allocate data on the `stack`, instead to the `heap` or to have always a fixed number of elements
* initialized with `[i32; 5]` means five elements of type *i32*
* initialized with `[5; 3]` means three times the same element with the same value
* elements can be accessed via `array[0]` - to get the first element
* if an element out of bound is tried to be accessed, **rust** panics
* can only be indexed with **unsigend** numbers

### Character Types

* most primitive **alphabatic** type
* `char` literals are specified with single quotes, e.g. `let c: char = 'c';`
* **4 bytes** in size
* represents a **scalar** unicode value
* accented letters, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean characters, emoji,
  and zero-width spaces are all valid char values in Rust
* range is from `U+0000` to `U+D7FF` and `U+E000` to `U+10FFFF`

## Functions

* most important is the `main` function, because it is the entry point of the program
* `snake_case` is convention for naming functions
* `fn`keyword is used to define a function
* position of the function definition in one file does not matte, because it is the entry point of the program
* `snake_case` is convention for naming functions
* `fn`keyword is used to define a function
* position of the function definition in one file does not matter
* function signatures **must** declare the type of each argument
* build out of statements, which can have an optional ending in an expression
* can return an value
* no name for return value needed
* return value of a function is the same as the final expression of a function
* returning earlies in a function needs the **return** keyword

### Statement & Expressions

* **statements** are instructions, which do not return a value
* **expressions** are evaluated to resulting in a value
* calling a function, calling a macro and a scope block is an **expression**
* **statements** have a trailing semicolon
* **expressions** do not have trailing semicolon, adding one will it make an statement

## Control Flow

* rust has **if expressions** and **loops**
* **if expressions** needs to evaluate to a **bool**
* no automaatic conversion of types to **bool**
* an **if expression** can be on the right site of a **let**, to the outcome to the variable
* when using this approach, both arms of the **if expression** needs to be the same type

### Loops & While

* `loop` keyword runs block of code over and over again
* runs until it will get break
* `Ctrl-c` or `break` keyword, can break the **loop**
* `continue` keyword can be used to skip over remaining code and start next iteration
* **loops** can be used to retry an operation, e.g. checking if a thread if it has completed its job
* values behind the `break` condition will be returned
* **loops** can be nested
* `break` and `continue` will effect the innermost **loop**
* **loop labels** can be used to specify which **loop** should be affected by `break` and `continue`
* `while` is  used when a program should evaluate befor each loop if the
  conditions are still **true**, otherwise break the loop
* `while` loop eleminating a lot of `if`, `else` & `break` nesting, to break a `loop`
* `for` loop can be used to loop through a collection

## Standard libraries

* to obtain user input and write output we need the `io` standard lib
* to use `io` it needs to be imported via `std:io`

## Crates

* an executable is a `binary crate`
* an external one, is called `library crate`
  * code is intended to used in other programs
  * can't be executed on its own
* external `library crates` are used to extend the functionality of the program
* external `library crates` are managed in the `Cargo.toml` file of the project
* **crates.io** is the site where **crates** gets published
* `Cargo.lock` file is used to pin down every used version of a crate for the project
* `Cargo.lock` ensures that every build is the same
* `cargo update` can update dependecies

### Heap & Stack

* most programming languages do not require to think of `heap`and `stack`
* both are part of the memory that is available to the code
* when a function is called, the values which are passed to the function (including also pointer to data on the `heap`)
  and local variables get pushed into the `stack` and will be popped out 
  when the functiuon is over

#### Stack

* stores data in the order it gets them
* removes the data in the opposite order
* `LIFO` - last in first out principle
* add data to the stack is called **pushing onto the stack**
* removing data from the stack is called **popping off the stack**
* all data stored in the stack must have a known size
* data with unknown size at compile time needs to be stored in the `heap`
* pishing to the `stack`is fast, because the allocator does not to search for a spot

#### Heap

* is less organized than the `stack`
* when data is put into the `heap`, a certain amount of memory is requested
* the memory allocator finds an empty spot, marks it as `in use` and returns a pointer to the data
* the process is called **allocating on the heap**
* because the pointer to the `heap` is a knwon size, it will be stored on the `stack`
* to get the actual data, the pointer needs to be followed into the `heap`
* accessing data in the `heap` is slower than in data in the `stack`, because the pointer needs to be followed

## Compiling & Executing

* `rustc` compiles the `main.rs` to an executable binary 
* `rustc` is suited for simple programs
* `cargo` is the build system and package manager of rust
  * builds code
  * downloads libraries
  * building those libraries
* to manage options and dependecies `cargo` is better suited than `rustc`
* dependencies are handled in a `Cargo.toml` file
  * `[package]` handles name, version and edtion
  * edtion indicated the rust language version
  * `[dependencies]` list the project dependencies
* packages in rust are called `crates`

## Syntax 

* variables are defined with `let`
* variables are unmutable by default
* to get a mutable variable it needs to be declared as so: `let mut <name-of-variable>`
* `fn main() {}` is always the first function that runs in every executable rust programm
* a semicolon `;` end an expression in rust
* `!#[allow(unused)]` allows unused variables in code, should only be used in for development
* indentation is always 4 `spaces` not `tabs`
* `println!` calls a rust macro, this is marked by the `!` at the end, if the `!` would be missing, it would be a functuin call
* `("{}")` is used to print a variable
* not all variables can just be printed, therefore we can use the **debug representation**, `{:?}`
* `PathBuf` does not implement `std::fmt::Display`, therefor to use `println!` on it, we need to call `display()` on the value
* `String.trim_end()` removes trailign whitespaces

### IO

* `io::stdin()` is a function to receive user input
* `io::stdin()` returns an instance of `std::io::Stdin`, which is a type that represents a handle to the standard input
* `read_line()` is a method of an instance of `std::io::Stdin` handle
* `read_line()` receives a reference to a mutable variable to store the `string` in
* `read_line()` returns a **Result** with 2 possible variants
  * **Ok** - operation was successful
  * **Err** - operation was failed
  * with `expect()` the error case can be handled, what usually indicates a problem in the underlying OS

### Reading from files

* a `File::open()` not a string, it returns a `Result`
* a `Result` in this case, contains a `String` and an `Error`
* a `Result` is an `enum`
* to handle the enum variants, also called **arms**, we can use `match`
* `unwrap()` is the shortcut method to do the same
* `unwrap()` combines the `match` and `panic` combination
* `?` is also a for `match`
* `?` can only be used on functions that returns a `Result`
* `?` will end up in the already unwrapped result (Ok), or `Err`

### Smart-Pointer

* `Pointer` is a address to a memory location
* `Box<T>` is the most straigforward smart pointer
* a `Box<T>` smart pointer stores data on the `heap`instead of the `stack`
* `Boxes` do not have a performance overhead, but also do not have extra caüabilities
* common uses cases are:
  * a type with an unknown size at compile time and a value of that type should be used
  in a context which requires an exact size
  * when a value should be owned, where it is only needed to know that
  a certain trait is implemented, rahter than a specific type

### Enumerations

* is used to define a type by enumerating over its possible varinats
* is used to encode meaning with data
* it is possible to attach data to an `enum` directly, without using a `struct`
* each variant of an `enum` becomes a function to construct an instance of the `enum`
* when assigning data directly eo an `enum`, it is also possible that the variants can have
  different types and associated data
* with `impl` it is possible to define `methods` on enums
* `enums` with different typed variants are better suited to pass into a function, than 
  the same amont of differents `structs`

### Output - Debugging & Logging

* by adding `#[derive(Debug)]` enables output for custom types
* `Debug` trait is usually output that targets **developers**
* `Display` trait is usually output that targets the **user**
* logging of output of the programm should be done with `stdout` - `println!()`
* logging of errors should be done with `stderr` - `eprintln!()`
* printing to the console is slow, but there are ways to speed things up:
  1. reduce number of writes that **flush** the terminal. `println!` tells the system to **flush** the terminal everytime.
  if this is not neccessary the `stdout` can be wrapped in a `BufWriter`
  2. acquire a lock on `stdout`or `stderr` and use `writeln!` to print directly
  this prevents the system from locking and unlocking the `stdout` all the time

## Testing

* unit test will be in the file, where the units are which should be tested
* convention is to create a module named `tests` in each file and to annotate it with `cfg(test)`
* integration test will live externaly to the `src` files in a folder called `tests`
* integration test will use the code in the same way as other code would do
* assertions are done with `assert_eq!` macro
* write integration tests for every behavior a user can encounter
* integrations test should not cover all edge cases, lean on unit tests for that
* do **not** test what you can not controll

## Packages

* `PathBuf` from `std::path` is also a string, but for file system paths an works cross-platform
* `std::fs::read_to_string` will read fill to a value
* calling `.lines()` on the return value of `std::fs::read_to_string` will give me an iterable value, where each index is a line
* the result of `.lines()` is a `String`, which has a `.contains()` method, to check if a string contains a certain pattern
* `anyhow` is a package to handle errors and to have pretty printing to console
* `ansi_term` is a good package to print out raw escaped code
* `assert_cmd` adds methods on *command*
* `assert_fs` is usefule to generate temporary test files
* `predicates` assertion library
* `std:process:Command` is used to run the binary
* `rand` is used to generate random numbers
* `tabled` an easy to use library for pretty print tables of Rust `struct`s and `enum`s.

## Packaging and Distributing

* three ways to package and release a programm
* publishing with **cargo**
  * with **cargo** all external dependecies will get downloaded from **cartes.io**
  * `cargo publish` will publish the crate to **crates.io**
  * `cargo.toml` should include all necessary fields for publishing on **crates.io**
  * e.g.: name, version, authors, license, description, readme, homepage, repo, keywords, categories
  * to install a package from **crates.io** `cargo install <crate-name>` should be used
  * user of the tool need to have rust installed to compile from source and use the programm
  * should mainly be used for crates which targets other rust developers
* distributing binaries
  * `cargo build` will generate binaries
  * generates one file, that can be used by users with the same OS
  * no need for `rust` to be installed
  * no need for compilation
  * different OS needs different builds and binaries
* getting the app into a package registry
  * usually no think about how to install the tool
  * package managers provides update mechanics
  * but each OS has there own package managers
* for starters, first use `cargo install`, than binaries and at last package managers
